Air handling allows us to let the script continue running even if there is an error.
Let's try an example to show you how we can do error handling and python.
Let's say we wanted to create a program that allows us to take a user's input.
Let's say that we ask the user for an H.
So we use the Input Prompt and say What is your H and then here or we're going to do is just print the
H.
Nice and simple program.
If I run this and I type in let's say 10.
There you go.
Everything is working.
But what if I didn't enter a number and I go like this.
Well that's still works but is that what I wanted to do with my program.
Maybe I wanted to enter the age and calculate if they can play the game of not or not whether they're
18 and over how can we fix this.
Well one thing we can do is just to wrap this in an end.
Right.
So we convert whatever the user gives us into an integer so that if I run this and I type this Oh I
get an error a value Error Invalid literal for int I'm trying to convert this into an integer but it's
telling me that's an error I can't do that.
So how can we fix this with error handling in Python.
We can do it this way.
We have the try loops.
We have the try keyword which says hey I want you to try this piece of code and we have to make sure
we indented so we try this piece of code now.
Anything that happens inside of the try block I'm able to handle see where handling is coming from errors
with the accept keyword and accept says hey if whatever's in here in the try block if anything errors
out I want you to say something.
So instead of having this read error that exits out of the program do something else do this so I'm
going to say print Please enter a number.
Let's see what happens now five click Run what is my age I'm going to just write gibberish and look
at that I get Please enter a number I am handling my errors here by wrapping all of my code in a try
block so I could have just copy pasted my entire file here put it inside of a try block and what's going
to happen is instead of my program airing out before my program crashes it's going to run this code
and then it's going to say hey if within this block anything happens we'll catch it in here with the
except block and I can hear and do whatever I want.
In my case I can say hey please enter our number but we have a problem.
Right.
The program just ended and we want this to keep running I have to click run again and ask for the H
once again so how can you make sure that we keep running this until while that user actually enters
something valid.
Well we've seen this before.
We can do a while loop and say while true Ron this
and if this works.
Well we're gonna hopefully get the H.
Let's see that.
If I click Run What's my age let's say no please entry no.
What's your age.
Let's try to break it again.
No.
Please enter a number.
All right fine.
My age is 10.
There you go.
I get the name 10 but oh it's still ask me What's my age ideally I want to break out of this true statement
right.
So how can I do that.
Well I can use what we call in here an LS block which we've seen before but this works with a try except
block we put it at the end it says Hey try this if there is an error do this.
However if there is nowhere else do this.
So in our case we can just say break you know what.
We can even print thank you.
Just so we're nice.
If I stop this and run again and I give them my age.
There you go.
We're done.
We broke out of the loop and everything is good in this try except else block can go anywhere we can
wrap our entire file in a try except else block we can just added into our functions inside of our each
individual functions whatever we want we can use.
This is just another tool that Python gives us to handle errors but let me ask you something.
What if I did instead of print H I did let's say 10 divided by the H if I run my program and I type
in here zero and I enter Oh I get an error please enter a number but I did enter a number this is a
buggy program although I'm typing a number it's still giving me the same error message.
So how do we handle this how do we handle different errors.
One where it is a value error and another one that is obviously a zero division error well in the except
block I can simply give it what type of error I want to handle and remember these are built in errors
in here that I can just copy and paste so in my case I want to say this is for a value error so that
if I run my program and I type in 0 0.
I get my error this except block only accepts value errors any other errors it does not care about him.
So what can we do here.
Well one option is to copy here and say hey let's add another accept and in this case I want a zero
division error in case a user enters 0 you can say Please enter H higher than 0 so that if I run this
now and I do zero I get please enter H higher than zero if I do some gibberish whoops if I do some gibberish
I get Please enter a number if I finally enter a number.
Look at that.
Thank you.
Everything is working.
Now here's my question What happens if we enter another value area here and this value error is just
going to say exclamation marks.
What happens now
I get Please enter a number because this except block is going to run only once as soon as it catches
the error it's looking for it's going to run and then come back to the while loop so only one of the
errors will be cut OK let's take a break and learn more about error handling in the next video by.